---
published: false
header-img: img/plptheader.png
layout: post
date: 2018-03-19T00:00:00.000Z
title: Denzel Curry - Uh Huh (feat. IDK)
subtitle: 'Currently on tour with A$AP Ferg, the duo link for their third loosie'
categories: songs
thumbnail: /img/thumbnail/huhthumb.jpg
---
<p>On paper, the combination of Denzel Curry and IDK sounds inviting. On wax, the duo shows up and shows out. The pair, currently on tour with A$AP Ferg, dropped &ldquo;Uh Huh&rdquo; on Friday, marking their third collaboration since beginning the tour with Ferg. The two led off with the mellow (by comparison) single &ldquo;No Wave&rdquo; before chipping in two solid verses on Ferg&rsquo;s loosie &ldquo;Kristi YamaGucci.&rdquo; &ldquo;Uh Huh&rdquo; (produced by FNZ and VohnBeatz) ratchets up the intensity with an ominous intro and off-kilter piano keys that give way to a smashing bass, marching synths and the occasional ad-libbed yell. Curry comes in hot with a full-throated chorus and doesn&rsquo;t drop the volume a decibel until IDK steps to the mic. Curry slows his delivery some to allow for the uptick in volume, but the bars still land with a bang.</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>IDK turns in a tidy, hard-edged verse that comes as a welcome change of pace from Zel&rsquo;s hoarse screaming. He works his way up in speed, beginning with a growling, punchy delivery before sliding into a quicker flow without dropping the intensity. It&rsquo;s a clinic in hard-nosed, powerful rapping and one that makes me wish I shelled out the money to see these two on the Ferg tour. &ldquo;Undertaker and my n*gga Kane uh huh/Hardest tag team in the game uh huh&rdquo; sneers Curry on the chorus, and right now it&rsquo;s hard to disagree. He and IDK are a legit force that can rap with almost anyone, and a collab project would probably make my year.</p>