---
published: true
header-img: img/plptheader.PNG
layout: post
date: 2018-01-29T00:00:00.000Z
title: Kidz in the Hall - Free Nights and Weekends
subtitle: The pair reunite for their first project since 2011
categories: albums
thumbnail: /img/thumbnail/kidzthumb.jpg
---
<p>Kidz in the Hall are a neat group with a neat past. The story goes that the group&rsquo;s two members, Naledge and Double-O, met in the early 2000s at the University of Pennsylvania through talent shows (and parties) before deciding to form a music group. Signed out of college by the left-field imprint Rawkus Records, the two dropped <em>School Is My Hustle </em>in 2006. In the wake of <em>The College Dropout </em>and around the same time as <em>Late Registration, </em>Kidz in the Hall was more of a homemade, garage band take on the &ldquo;scholar-artist.&rdquo; Reunited after six years between releases, <em>Free Nights and Weekends</em> dropped right at the end of 2017 and escaped the notice of the masses. Though a decently popular group during their run in the late 2000s, Double-O went touring as the DJ for Lupe Fiasco while Naledge pursued his doctorate, recorded solo music, and developed his nonprofit <em>The Brainiac Project. </em>The two were never out of the industry, just kept apart by other obligations.</p>
<p>With Double-O behind the boards and Naledge on the mic, the two find success on <em>Free Nights and Weekends </em>when channeling the DIY sounds they built a career on. The one-two punches of &ldquo;Dear Eastside&rdquo; and &ldquo;Soup Coolin&rsquo;&rdquo; along with &ldquo;No Love&rdquo; and &ldquo;1000 Colors&rdquo; are the stronger stretches on the album, particularly the first. &ldquo;Dear Eastside&rdquo; features some soothing piano keys, delicate tambourine, and a strange buzzing in the background that might be a little bagpipe note. Naledge adapts a famous Gangstarr line and talks about his lifestyle in Chicago as well as how its people are living by comparison. &ldquo;Soup Coolin&rsquo;&rdquo; employs some echoing drums and a jerky bass line as Naledge spits some steady, lighthearted bars about an attractive young lady. His rapping isn&rsquo;t forceful and his rhymes are mind-bending, but his bars are clean, precisely performed, and damn clever. He&rsquo;s certainly a more cerebral rapper, but it works over the live instrumentation and less complex beats.</p>
<p>&ldquo;No Love&rdquo; is a busy but elegant beat over which Naledge discusses the plight of African Americans in urban areas. This is the most urgency we get from him on the album, but it&rsquo;s a surprising and engaging change of pace that sticks. &ldquo;1000 Colors&rdquo; is a simpler kick-snare beat that brings back the light-hearted raps that trace the artist and a girl through the years where their paths diverged. Naledge&rsquo;s little harmony pairs nicely with the deep, hollow horns that stand alone on the chorus.</p>
<p>The pair does dabble successfully in more &ldquo;modern&rdquo; sounds (stuff nobody had heard yet in 2011) on two occasions. &ldquo;Bonafied&rdquo; is a majestic track that sprinkles saxophone over light background vocals, pattering hats, and wavering chords. By contrast, the closing track &lsquo;Find My Way&rdquo; is a slow, grinding, slamming beat with intense, borderline angry raps that confidently assert the Kidz&rsquo; return after being written off. Unfortunately, the three tracks between &ldquo;Soup Coolin&rsquo;&rdquo; and &ldquo;No Love&rdquo; are rather unsuccessful attempts at adapting to the popular sounds of 2018. The tracks aren&rsquo;t necessarily unlistenable or even bad; they just don&rsquo;t sound natural or interesting when coming from the Kidz.</p>
<p>However, <em>Free Nights and Weekends</em> is an unexpected triumph from a group most had likely forgotten. Their fingerprints are all over today&rsquo;s Chicago rap scene, particularly the stylings of the Savemoney crew, because of their homemade charm. They excel on this album when they get back to basics; simple but lush beats and lighthearted, occasionally political raps. It&rsquo;s a winning formula employed by many of today&rsquo;s upstarts, but it&rsquo;s always hard to beat the vets at their own game.</p>
