---
published: true
header-img: img/plptheader.PNG
layout: post
date: 2018-04-17T00:00:00.000Z
title: Alina Baraz - The Color of You
group: featured
subtitle: The R&B songstress returns after almost 3 years between releases
categories: albums
thumbnail: /img/thumbnail/COYthumb.jpg
---
<p>Back in the fall, Cleveland&rsquo;s Alina Baraz broke her 2-year silence with a pair of singles, &ldquo;Buzzin&rdquo; and &ldquo;Lavender and Velvet.&rdquo; She then fell silent for another six months until finally releasing her second EP, titled <em>The Color of You</em>, on April 9<sup>th</sup>. I first discovered Baraz after the singles dropped and found out her only other official release&ndash;<em>Urban Flora</em>&ndash;came back in 2015 as part of an Internet collaboration with producer Galamitas (the two sent each other beats and vocals over Facebook). I remember wishing her catalogue was bigger after hearing the singles and <em>Urban Flora</em>, but the lack of subsequent loosies or an album release over the next month or so caused my interest to wane.</p>
<p>Much to my surprise and delight, Baraz came through with new music. <em>The Color of You</em> checks in at a brisk 31 minutes, but Baraz makes those minutes count. Opener &ldquo;Fallin&rdquo; pairs a low-fi-type beat with Baraz&rsquo;s vocals lamenting a significant other who continues to play games with her. Baraz possesses an excellent command of her voice, which sits halfway between delicate and overpowering. The chorus on &ldquo;Fallin&rdquo; serves as a helpful example; she harmonizes beautifully, but you sense she could turn the intensity/volume up if she wanted to. On this track, there&rsquo;s no need.</p>
<p>&ldquo;High,&rdquo; the third track, shifts the mood from lighthearted to sultry. It sounds a lot like the traditional slow jam, setting the mood with some guitar chords before adding synth effects and a standard bass. On the chorus, the beat cuts in and out as the song breathes a little. The mood transfers seamlessly to &ldquo;Coming to My Senses,&rdquo; which slows things down even more, strips away the guitar and leaves some snares, a pattering baseline and some random synths. On both tracks, Baraz drops her voice a bit to adjust to the new beats, almost whispering some of her vocals in the process.</p>
<p>Other highlights include &ldquo;Tainted,&rdquo; a snappy track about trying to escape the toxic memories of an old flame. Bubbly snyths and a nod-along baseline accompany Baraz, who sounds most comfortable over this sort of beat. She moves up and down the vocal register between chorus and verse sounding fluid and effortless. Closer &ldquo;Electric&rdquo; offers a cool electro-pop beat and a feature from Khalid (who also appears on &ldquo;Floating&rdquo;), who behaves like the perfect guest by chipping in a nice verse and some backing vocals without stealing the show. Between the pleasant beat and strong vocal performances, it&rsquo;s the perfect palate-cleanser.</p>
<p>For a 9-track EP, <em>The Color of You </em>showed an impressive amount of polish. Baraz and her team clearly put in the studio hours mixing and mastering, and it paid off. Going 3 years between albums cannot be easy, but Baraz sounded like she didn&rsquo;t miss a step. Her voice remains strong as ever, and her brand of electronic-infused R&amp;B should see some more shine as people begin tuning in. Hopefully we don&rsquo;t wait three years for the next one.</p>
