---
published: true
header-img: img/dogsheader.jpg
layout: post
date: 2018-01-04T00:00:00.000Z
title: 6 dogs
subtitle: 'An endearing take on SoundCloud rap, auto tune, and the styles of the day'
categories: artists
thumbnail: /img/thumbnail/dogsthumb.jpeg
---
<p>Listening to bad hip-hop is a lot like eating junk food; you make a conscious choice to repeatedly consume something of low quality that probably isn&rsquo;t great for you. In that vein, many of the artists making waves predominantly on SoundCloud in the last few years are comparable to the junk food of the hip-hop world. You know you should be trying to listen healthily and maybe spin <em>DAMN. </em>in reverse to decode some secret message Kendrick stans missed, but instead you indulge yourself in the low-brow antics of someone like Lil Pump. It&rsquo;s not making you smarter or a better listener or more intelligent, but shit it&rsquo;s catchy. Who cares that Playboi Carti had the worst XXL freestyle this year, I&rsquo;m going to listen to &ldquo;New Choppa&rdquo; for the thousandth time. It&rsquo;s a classic case of escapism; listening to XXXtentacion scream himself hoarse is fun.</p>
<p>One of the most interesting subgenres that has emerged in the last few years lies in the mold of Kanye West&rsquo;s <em>808s and Heartbreak. </em>Some would call it emo rap, but I think it&rsquo;s more mood music as the raps take a backseat. It&rsquo;s usually some blend of autotuned vocals, atmospheric production, and lyrical content first properly introduced to us on <em>808s </em>that usually centers on personal turmoil, drug use, etc. From there, it&rsquo;s tough to draw definite parallels between artists. Mr. Tentacion brings an industrial sound and poorly mixed vocals to pair with tales of his scumbag behavior, while someone like Lil Peep (RIP) fits 808 kits on rock samples and uses auto tune more liberally. Both have been tagged as emo rap, yet the sounds are unique.</p>
<p>6 dogs has carved out a niche for himself somewhere in between. &ldquo;I know I ain&rsquo;t no lyricist&rdquo; he raps on &ldquo;beautiful whips,&rdquo; but he doesn&rsquo;t really need to be. His voice, smoothed considerably by the magic of auto tune, almost oozes out of the speakers. It&rsquo;s borderline hypnotic, and the left-field, atmosphere-oriented production from a slew of faceless producers is tailor-made to create that dreamlike effect. He had the bright idea to take piano keys that sound a lot like the ones made famous by &ldquo;Still Dre,&rdquo; slow them way down, pitch them, and add a clipping baseline and drum kit while rapping about driving around in a hearse (unsurprisingly, the name of said track). My favorite example of 6 Dogs&rsquo; work is &ldquo;faygo dreams,&rdquo; his most popular song. Mournful horns introduce the track, followed by a familiar 808 kit punctuated by those same horns. Exotic synths are introduced for the second half of the chorus as Dogs raps about the haters, spending money, etc. while repeatedly slipping in references to sleeping and dreams.</p>
<p>The problem is that I have no idea what to make of 6 dogs. His bars are weak, but he knows it. He sounds drugged up, but only adds to the effect with his beat selection. He looks the part of angsty white teen in music videos, but he&rsquo;s bright enough to concoct this trippy audio soup of auto tuned vocals and oddball production that sounds flat-out good. Apparently, he gives so few fucks that he doesn&rsquo;t capitalize the d in dogs or the titles of most of his songs. He turned down a DJ Carnage feature because he didn&rsquo;t think it fit his style and released campy, colorful videos for some of his songs. He&rsquo;s built an early following by pretending to give no fucks, but what&rsquo;s going on behind the curtain? He&rsquo;s under no illusions about who he is as an artist, which is why I think I like his music so much. It&rsquo;s a unique aesthetic that&rsquo;s oddly endearing, and I don&rsquo;t feel quite so unhealthy listening to his music.</p>
